Thousands of our sisters have been active for many years in that large army of women.
Bertil Coppelian, a special pioneer in West Virginia in the United States, entered the full-time service in 1958.
In that time, she has helped more than 60 people to baptism.
How has her outlook toward the ministry kept her going for almost 60 years?
My father was opposed to the truth as I was growing up, but my mother was very, very zealous.
I knew that things my mother was teaching me was truth.
I knew that this was what I was going to do.
And it was not easy, but we did it.
I was daddy's girl, but my mom made sure that I and my siblings knew the truth.
She studied with us when no other children in the congregation had Bible studies at home.
Of course, we kind of kicked and didn't like it, but it was glad she did it.
My mother was a very, very positive person.
And although she had the opposition, I saw how she dealt with it and how firm and determined she was.
That was something she taught us.
It's a mindset.
You know, your mind is a wonderful thing.
It can really influence you toward good or maybe not so good.
And so then I was determined in my mind that I was going to serve Jova then.
In our congregation, there were brothers and sisters of the anointed.
They were always very kind to me, and they encouraged me.
I worked in service with them, and I thought, that's the way I want to be.
Children like attention.
And so then if you give them attention, you talk with them and ask if you could work with them in the ministry.
Then help them prepare a presentation and go over it and over.
And so that they're ready for the ministry, and then they'll enjoy it more.
That was one of the things that the anointed in the congregation where I was, they paid attention to me.
And I loved it.
How I learned to teach was I think about the person and I think about their situation.
And I try to think in my mind what they are thinking.
And I work on that and think of what kind of scriptures I could find to help them.
And so then I try to pattern our studies to incorporate some of those things.
Here's always challenges.
Some of the winters right on the lake where I lived were very harsh.
And my trailer was parked in such a way that every time the wind blew and the snow came and the ice came, it sealed the door.
And so then I carried a big knife in my car and I would have to cut around the door to get the door to open, break the ice seal.
It was interesting.
I had some opposition in the territories and one was this lady was very irate.
And she went to kick me and she kicked me right in the stomach.
And so then anyway I dismissed myself.
Then a while later it was time to work the territory again.
Nobody wanted to go there and we didn't have do not calls.
I don't think at that time at least there wasn't any in the territory.
So then anyway I called by and I mentioned to her, oh hello there.
I know I've had the opportunity to talk with you before.
Yes, she remembered.
And I said, well perhaps you were having a bad day then.
I hit a law where I had few Bible studies and I prayed diligently to Jehovah.
Jehovah helped me, I need Bible studies and then you have to be out there looking for them.
And well I've lost my father, my mother, my sister, my brother.
Well naturally you feel at a loss but Jehovah strengthened me and the friends strengthened me.
I kept busy in the ministry.
But again it goes back to that mindset, are you going to let the challenge beat you or are you going to beat the challenge?
You and Jehovah can beat the challenge.
You know discouragement is one of Satan's biggest tools.
I always tell myself I'm not going to let Satan beat me down.
As far as health is concerned my everyday health is very good.
And I have a leg that drives me crazy.
I think back of Jacob he serves Jehovah with a limp and then I think of Paul.
And so then those things keep you humble.
I've prayed and prayed and prayed about it but just like with the Apostle Paul it didn't disappear.
And so then I just say, patch me up till I'm again. It'll disappear then.
If your mind is made up that this is what you're going to do, this is your life, this is what Jehovah wanted you to do.
And so then you do it.
I've seen how he's kept me going.
You know that I've needed work, I've needed money, I've needed strength, I've needed companionship
because a lot of times I'm in the ministry by myself, I talk to Jehovah.
And so then he's always there for me.
I definitely want to keep pioneering or serving Jehovah the best I can.
Regardless of what comes up there is nothing more joyful than to see that you have helped somebody live forever.
Well how much better could it be?
Sister Caperian had a profound effect on those she witnessed too.
I know this because she found me in the door-to-door ministry when I was 14 years old.
At that age I had the goal to be a doctor.
One night after the meeting Bertiel said to me, well you know in the new world we won't need doctors
because Jesus will do all the healing.
Honestly that hit me hard because I wanted to help people as well as provide for my mother.
But she added what we will need is teachers.
I thought that was a good idea.
Still focused on a career I had one type of teacher in mind but she had another.
Through her patience and reasoning she helped me to become the most important kind of teacher, a teacher of God's Word.
Is there someone like Sister Caperian in your congregation?
We are grateful for the Sister Zealous Spirit and for the personal interest they show toward us.
And we're sure Jehovah values them like we do.